# May 10 2022
## Lab
```mermaid
img : image
c : container
a : install apache
ci : custom image
img --> c
c --> a
a --> ci
```
1. `docker pull ubuntu`
2. `docker run -it -d ubuntu`
3. `docker ps # to get container id`
3. `docker exec -it <container-id> /bin/bash`
4. `apt-get update`
5. `apt-get install apache2`
6. `docker commit 1c353ce7159e michaeldez/marsubuntudemo`
7. `docker login`
8. `docker push michaeldez/marsubuntudemo`
## other repository managers
- Gitlab Container Registry (private registry)
- JFrog
- Nexus
## pulling from private registry
`docker pull sample-registry.io:5678/michaeldez/ubuntu`
## dockerfile commands
`FROM` specifies the base image used to build from when creating a new image.
```dockerfile
FROM ubuntu
```
`ADD` is used to add files to the container being built. Syntax is:
```dockerfile
ADD <source> <target>
```
`RUN` is used to add layers to the base image by installing components. Each `RUN` statement adds a new layer to the docker image.
```dockerfile
FROM ubuntu
```
`CMD` keyword is used to run commands when the container starts. These commands run only when there is no argument specified while running the container.
`ENTRYPOINT` is used strictly to run commands the moment the container initializes. The difference between `CMD` and `ENTRYPOINT` is that `ENTRYPOINT` will run whether an argument is provided or not.
`ENV` is used to define environment variables in the container's runtime.
## expose a port
`-p [host port]:[container port]`
## review with Karan
### `docker exec` vs `docker attach`
Both can be used to open a shell to the container but the `exit` command will stop the container.
### `docker rename`
syntax is `sudo docker rename <target> <new_name>
### `docker run` options
* `-d`: detached mode, run container in background and as an output will give the container's id as output. Default behavior runs container in the foreground. Exiting with the container in the foreground stops the container.
* `-it`: interactive mode
I `-p`: port mapping [host]:[container]
